.\" The scnp-cli(1) man page     -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" This man page has been rewritten adhering to the following
.\" documentation: man(7), man-pages(7), tbl(1)
.\"
.TH SCNP\-CLI 1 "2021\-05\-24" "Linux" "User commands"
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH NAME
scnp\-cli \- Soundcraft Notepad series mixer CLI
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scnp\-cli
.B \-\-help
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B \-\-version
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B audio\-routing
.I N
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B ducker\-off
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B ducker\-on
.I INPUTS
.IR RELEASE ms
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B ducker\-range
.IR HEX_VALUE | RANGE dB
.br
.B scnp\-cli
.B ducker\-threshold
.IR HEX_VALUE | THRESH dB
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBscnp\-cli\fR gives command line access to the USB control commands for the Soundcraft Notepad series of mixers to help verify the USB protocol description document.
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version message and exit.
.TP
.BI audio\-routing\  N
Find a supported device, and set its audio sources. There must be exactly one supported device connected. The valid source numbers \fIN\fR are specific to the device:
.RS
.TP
.BR NOTEPAD\-5\  "(channels 1+2 of 2\-channel audio capture device)"
    \fI0\fR  MIC+LINE 1+2
    \fI1\fR  LINE 2+3
    \fI2\fR  LINE 4+5
    \fI3\fR  MASTER L+R
.TP
.BR NOTEPAD\-8FX\  "(channels 1+2 of 2\-channel audio capture device)"
    \fI0\fR  MIC 1+2
    \fI1\fR  LINE 3+4
    \fI2\fR  LINE 5+6
    \fI3\fR  MASTER L+R
.TP
.BR NOTEPAD\-12FX\  "(channels 3+4 of 4\-channel audio capture device)"
    \fI0\fR  MIC 3+4
    \fI1\fR  LINE 5+6
    \fI2\fR  LINE 7+8
    \fI3\fR  MASTER L+R
.PP
Note that on the \fBNOTEPAD\-12FX\fR 4\-channel audio capture device, capture device channels 1+2 are always fed from mixer CH 1+2.
.RE
.TP
.BI ducker\-off
Turn the ducker off.
.TP
.R \fBducker\-on\fR \fIINPUTS\fR \fIRELEASE\fRms
Turn the ducker on and set the following values:
  INPUTS (range 0..15) is a bitmask for the input \fBSelection\fR
    0b0000 = 0 = no inputs watched, 0b1111 = 15 = all four inputs watched
  RELEASE (range 0..5000) is a the \fBrelease\fR time in ms
    0 = release time 0, 5000 = release time 5000ms=5s
.TP
.R \fBducker\-range\fR \fIHEX_VALUE\fR|\fIRANGE\fRdB
Set the \fBduck range\fR to the given value.
Valid range is 0dB to 90dB, or 0 to 0x1fffffff.
It may be best to only use this while ducker is on.
.TP
.R \fBducker\-threshold\fR \fIHEX_VALUE\fR|\fITHRESH\fRdB
Set the \fBthreshold\fR to the given value.
Valid range is \-60dB to 0dB, or 0x000000 to 0x7fffff.
It may be best to only use this while ducker is on.
.TP
.BI meter
Show the meter until you press Ctrl\-C.
It may be best to only use this while ducker is on.
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
When successful, \fBscnp\-cli\fR returns with exit code 0.
.PP
Any non\-0 exit code means that \fBscnp\-cli\fR has encountered an error and has bailed out.
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCNP_CLI_DRY_RUN
If the SCNP_CLI_DRY_RUN environment variable is set to to a non\-empty value, then \fBscnp\-cli\fR will refrain from actually executing any USB control transfers to or from any USB device.  Whether and how \fBscnp\-cli\fR interprets that non\-empty string in any way is unspecified at this time.
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH NOTES
.SS "Devices and Permissions"
.PP
To communicate with an actual mixer device, \fBscnp\-cli\fR needs read/write access to the corresponding device special file.  The device file is usually named something like \fI/dev/bus/usb/007/008\fR (the numbers will vary) and its permissions are set up by
.BR "udev(7)" .
.PP
See also \fB@docdir@/README.md\fR for more information.
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to
.UR https://github.com/spkr\-beep/beep/issues
.UE .
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
    [user@host ~]$ \fBscnp\-cli\fR \fBaudio\-routing\fR \fI2\fR
    Bus 006 Device 003: ID 05fc:0032 Soundcraft Notepad\-12FX
    Setting USB audio source to 2 (LINE 7+8) for device NOTEPAD\-12FX
    [user@host ~]$ _
.PP
    [user@host ~]$ \fBscnp\-cli\fR \fBducker\-on\fR \fI2\fR \fI2000\fRms
    Bus 006 Device 003: ID 05fc:0032 Soundcraft Notepad\-12FX
    ducker\-on inputs=2 release_ms=2000 NOTEPAD\-12FX
    device_send_ctrl_message(device, {00 00 02 80 01 02 07 d0})
    [user@host ~]$ _
.PP
    [user@host ~]$ \fBscnp\-cli\fR \fBducker\-range\fR \fI69\fRdB
    Bus 006 Device 003: ID 05fc:0032 Soundcraft Notepad\-12FX
    ducker\-range range=0x18888887=411601031 NOTEPAD\-12FX
    device_send_ctrl_message(device, {00 00 02 81 18 88 88 87})
    [user@host ~]$ _
.PP
    [user@host ~]$ \fBscnp\-cli\fR \fBducker\-threshold\fR \fI\-16\fRdB
    Bus 006 Device 003: ID 05fc:0032 Soundcraft Notepad\-12FX
    ducker\-threshold thresh=6151645 NOTEPAD\-12FX
    device_send_ctrl_message(device, {00 00 02 82 00 5d dd dd})
    [user@host ~]$ _
.PP
The following display has been shortened a bit to fit this man page into a 80 character line.

    [user@host ~]$ \fBscnp\-cli\fR \fBmeter\fR
    Bus 006 Device 003: ID 05fc:0032 Soundcraft Notepad\-12FX
    meter for NOTEPAD\-12FX. Press Ctrl\-C to quit.
    uintval   dB    bar graph
    ^C0e709  \-49.1 [########################\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-]
    meter summary:
      minimum        180 = 0x000000b4   \-99.4dB
      maximum     246522 = 0x0003c2fa   \-36.7dB
    [user@host ~]$ _
.\"
.\" ====================================================================
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" Distro packages might want to replace the next line with their README
.\" .BR @pkgdocdir@/README.Distro ,
.BR @docdir@/README.md ,
.UR "https://github.com/socratools/socradoc"
.UE ,
.UR "https://github.com/socratools/socranop"
.UE
